---
layout: post
title:  "Yarn"
date:   2020-05-20 09:52:11
categories: Yarn
---

## Installation
* Install `NodeJS` by `nvm` is preferred.

```
npm install -g yarn # Globally install yarn first
cd ~/path/to/project
yarn set version berry # Set your project's yarn as version 2
```

## version 
* yarn version issues.

Refer to https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install

Run `which yarn` you got `/usr/local/bin/yarn`. 

Run `~/yarn --version` you got `1.22.10`.

Run `~/your_project/yarn --version` you got `2.0.0-rc.31`. That is right. Because this project is using yarn 2!

## Docker
Docker `yarn start` got:
 
`Usage Error: The project in /Users/lanezhang/projects/sauron/frontend/package.json doesn't seem to have been installed - running an install there might help`

or `yarn .pnp.js Error: Not a zip archive`.

Both the two errors are caused by the failure of `yarn install`. 

You can find errors like `YN0018: │ yargs@npm:12.0.5: The remote archive doesn't match the expected checksum`.

So try to make `yarn install` succeed first.

Solution:
`Dockerfile`:

`frontend/Dockerfile`:
```dockerfile
FROM node

WORKDIR /code/frontend

RUN yarn cache clean
RUN yarn install

EXPOSE 3000
CMD ["yarn", "start"]
```

`docker-compose.yml`
```yaml
frontend:
    build: ./frontend
    volumes:
      - ./frontend:/code/frontend
```

* https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39990017/should-i-commit-the-yarn-lock-file-and-what-is-it-for
The npm client installs dependencies into the node_modules directory non-deterministically. This means that based on the order dependencies are installed, the structure of a node_modules directory could be different from one person to another. These differences can cause “works on my machine” bugs that take a long time to hunt down. Yarn resolves these issues around versioning and non-determinism by using lockfiles and an install algorithm that is deterministic and reliable. These lockfiles lock the installed dependencies to a specific version, and ensure that every install results in the exact same file structure in node_modules across all machines.

