---
layout: post
title:  "Jetbrains PyCharm & RubyMine"
date:   2021-07-16 21:11:11
categories: JetBrain PyCharm
---

# JetBrain
## Useful Shortcuts
```text
command + option + ` : Switch among different opened projects  
```

### Join multiple lines' item to one line.
`Ctrl + Shift + J`: Click the first item of an array first. Then, `Ctrl + Shift + J` to move next line to this line

### Split one long line's items to multiple lines. 
This is the reverse of `Ctrl + Shift + J`. 
You can use `Find - Search - Replace` feature. 
E.g. `Find - search (,) - replace with (, Enter)`. The `Enter` is a press of Enter key.

# PyCharm
Open `PyCharm`, then `File -> Open -> select '/path/to/sauron/' -> click 'Open'`.

## PyCharm for backend
### Python Interpreter
`PyCharm -> Preferences -> Project:sauron -> Project Interpreter -> Click 'sauron' folder ->
Project Interpreter -> Select the correct interpreter`.

We suggest reading [pyenv-virtualenv](https://lane1472.medium.com/how-to-switch-python-environments-gracefully-use-pyenv-b1cc50a133e9) for the Python virtualenv.

### Enable Django support
`PyCharm -> Preferences -> Languages & Frameworks -> Django -> Click 'sauron' folder -> 
Choose 'Enable Django support'`.
* Set `Django project root` as `/path/to/sauron/api`.
* Set `Settings` as `sauron/settings`.
* Under `manager.py tasks`, set `Environment variables` as what you want if you need.
* Click `OK`.

### Run Django tests
Please read [How to run Django tests in PyCharm](https://lane1472.medium.com/how-to-run-django-tests-in-pycharm-fccdfa718bbc).

## PyCharm for frontend
### Node package manager
`PyCharm -> Preferences -> Languages & Frameworks -> Node.js & NPM -> Package manager -> Choose 'NPM' (not 'yarn')`

Because in this way, we can make the ESLint integrate well with PyCharm.

So please manually run `npm install` when new package added.
If running `npm install` changes `./frontend/yarn.lock`, then revert the change to still use the original `yarn.lock`.
 
## Other useful settings
* Preferences | Editor | Strip trailing spaces on Save | All
* Preferences | Editor | Code style | Javascript | Use `Single Quote` `in new code`.
* Preferences | Editor | Code style | Javascript | Spaces | Within | ES6 import/export braces (Check it)
